1.  [Help and docs](/help-and-docs)
2.  [APIs](/help-and-docs/apis)
3.  [.NET Management API](/help-and-docs/apis/management-dotnet)
4.  Model

[Log in to add to favourites](/account/login)

Page last updated 26 September 2023

The user class represents a user in Contensis.

## Members

Name

Type

Description

AvatarUrl

String

The URL of the user's avatar.

Created

DateTime

The user creation datetime.

Credentials.Provider.Type

enum

The type of credential provider for the user, 'Sys', 'Contensis', 'External'.

Credentials.Provider.Name

string

The name of credential provider.

Custom

Dictionary<string,string></string,string>

The user's custom properties,

Email

String

The email address.

FirstName

String

The user's firstname.

Id

Guid

The user's unique identifier.

LastLogin

DateTime?

The user's last login datetime.

LastName

String

The user's lastname.

Modified

DateTime?

The last modification datetime.

OptOutOfNotifications

Boolean

Shows if the user has opted out of receiving all notifications generated by Contensis.

PasswordChanged

DateTime?

The last password change datetime.

Status

[UserStatus](/help-and-docs/apis/management-dotnet/model/userstatus)

The user's status properties.

Timezone

String

The user's timezone.

Username

String

The user's username.

## Methods

Method

Returns

Description

[Delete](/help-and-docs/apis/management-dotnet/security/users/delete-a-user)

void

Deletes the user.

[DeleteAsync](/help-and-docs/apis/management-dotnet/security/users/delete-a-user)

void

Deletes the user asynchronously.

[Groups](/help-and-docs/apis/management-dotnet/security/users/get-group-memberships)

PagedList<[Group](/help-and-docs/apis/management-dotnet/model/group)\>

Lists group memberships.

[GroupsAsync](/help-and-docs/apis/management-dotnet/security/users/get-group-memberships)

PagedList<[Group](/help-and-docs/apis/management-dotnet/model/group)\>

Lists group memberships asynchronously.

[IsMemberOf](/help-and-docs/apis/management-dotnet/security/users/check-group-memberships)

bool

Checks if the user is a member of the specified group(s).

[IsMemberOfAsync](/help-and-docs/apis/management-dotnet/security/users/check-group-memberships)

bool

Checks if the user is a member of the specified group(s) asynchronously.

[Save](/help-and-docs/apis/management-dotnet/security/users/create-and-update-users)

void

Updates the changes to the user, or creates a new user.

[SaveAsync](/help-and-docs/apis/management-dotnet/security/users/create-and-update-users)

void

Saves the changes to the user, or creates a new user asynchronously.

[UpdatePassword](/help-and-docs/apis/management-dotnet/security/users/update-password)

void

Updates the user's password.

[UpdatePasswordAsync](/help-and-docs/apis/management-dotnet/security/users/update-password)

void

Updates the user's password asynchronously.

[Suspend](/help-and-docs/apis/management-dotnet/security/users/suspend-a-user-account "Suspend")

void

Sets the user's status to suspended so they cannot log in.

[SuspendAsync](/help-and-docs/apis/management-dotnet/security/users/suspend-a-user-account "SuspendAsync")

void

Sets the user's status to suspended, asynchronously, so they cannot log in.

[Unsuspend](/help-and-docs/apis/management-dotnet/security/users/suspend-a-user-account "Unsuspend")

void

Sets the user's status to active so they can log in.

[UnsuspendAsync](/help-and-docs/apis/management-dotnet/security/users/suspend-a-user-account "UnsuspendAsync")

void

Sets the user's status to active, asynchronously, so they can log in.

[Unlock](/help-and-docs/apis/management-dotnet/security/users/unlock-a-user "Unlock")

void

Unlocks a locked user so they can log in.

[UnlockAsync](/help-and-docs/apis/management-dotnet/security/users/unlock-a-user "UnlockAsync")

void

Unlocks a locked user, asynchronously, so they can log in.